Find out more about the history and various organs of the United Nations. 
As in the above activity, count the number of different animals and plants in this area and the number of individuals of each species. 
Fig. . (a): A Coniferous Forest 
Lift a small sample of the tissue onto a microscope slide on which you already have placed a drop of iodine solution. Put the cover slip on. 
By statement : We express the scale of a map by statement or by language . 
Do you know? 
A potometer provides an indirect measurement of the transpiration rate it measures how fast water is absorbed, which is related to how fast water vapour is being lost. It cannot measure how fast water vapour is being given off directly. 
v. development of social infrastructure : Development of social infrastructure is another important achievement of our five year plans . 
From where could this indigo be procured? 
Improve your learning 
And also tried bring in harmony among Hindus and Muslims . 
emulsion 
Did you know? 
A and C were covered with black paper on their covers. 
With the help of ozone : Ozone gas is formed due to thunderclap in the sky . 
All these keep their own properties intact in the air . 
Though amoeba is a one-cell animal , it takes in solid food through its body surface . 
During 1995 - 96 , Bangladesh had 884 kilometres of broad gauge railway lines , but recently , it increased to 659 . 33 kilometres . 
Articles/ Activities (A) 
Natural Vegetation 
They built tanks , temples , wells , forts and palaces . 
non-metals are found on the far right hand side of the table; and 
Preservation of food 
. Non-contact Forces 
Pseudopodia Epithelial Tissue : Found in pseudopodial cells in the endoderms of Hydra and in the intestine of vertebrate animals . 
In the next activity we will balance an equation that is much simpler, but we are not going to include all the explanations of the previous activity. 
Barytes: This is a group of ores from which an element called Barium is extracted. Barium is used for industrial and medical purposes. Barytes is also used in drilling deep holes for petroleum and natural gas. 
District Mineral 
The match starts with a '' throw off '' . 
Thrombocyte or Platelets : These are present in the blood of vertebrate animals . 
The British and French Companies were in the forefront of this . 
Aniseed , fenugreek seed , pepper , parsley , white cumin , all these types of flavored spices can be persevered in the same process . 
Growth rate of population : The growth rate of population indicates the rate at which the population is growing. In estimating the growth rate the increase in population is compared with the base population. It can be measured annually or over a decade. 
Answer the following questions briefly. 
Why farmers go for machinary for harvesting crops? 
The places situated in the high pressure areas on both the hemispheres have dry climate throughout the year . 
An example will help you understand the fact . 
Heat is a form of energy . 
They are made of steel or plastic . 
... behind the First Five Year Plan lies the conception of India s unity and of a mighty co-operative effort of all the peoples of India We have to remember always that it is not merely the governmental machinery that counts in all this, but even more so the enthusiasm and co-operation of the people. Our people must have the sensation of partnership in a mighty enterprise, of being fellow-travellers towards the next goal that they and we have set before us. The Plan may be, and has to be, based on the calculations of economists, statisticians and the like, but figures and statistics, very important as they are, do not give life to the scheme. That breath of life comes in other ways, and it is for us now to make this Plan, which is enshrined in cold print, something living, vital and dynamic, which captures the imagination of the people. 
A concave mirror forms magnified inverted image when the object is d. multiple refraction placed at a. ' F ' d. beyond ' C ' . 
Specialised cells that perform a specific function, group together to form a tissue. For example, muscle cells will group together to form muscle tissue, epithelial cells will group together to form the skin, and nerve cells will group together to form the brain and nerves. 
Issue of token coins : Another reform of Mohammad was that , he issued copper coins in place of silver coins with the same face value . 
A compression is a region in a longitudinal wave where the particles are closest together. 
Write your observations . 
What are the contributions of the coastal districts of Karnataka in the economic development of India ? 
piece of string about cm long 
They are of different types . 
This does not mean that hydrogen and oxygen always combine in a ratio to form . Multiple proportions are possible. For example, hydrogen and oxygen may combine in different proportions to form rather than . In , the ratio is and the mass ratio of hydrogen to oxygen is . This will be the same for any molecule of hydrogen peroxide. 
Similarly per cent of casual workers in urban areas are below poverty line . 
Foreign invasions During this period , there sprang up city-states in Greece . 
Mathematical skills in Life Sciences Scales 
These rights are absolutely necessary for proper and smooth living . 
. Which is not a safe place during a thunder storm? 
Pebbles. 
. ______________ buffaloes giver more milk. 
The story of the scale 
. Why does the compass always show the North ? Know the reasons with the help of your teacher. 
Microorganisms . 
. How important was the income from land revenue to the stability of the Mughal Empire? 
_____ carry the _____ blood to the heart from where it is sent to the _____ to be oxygenated. 
Stigma : The swollen part at top of the style is the stigma . 
. The law has the right to forbid only actions that are injurious to society. 
Various steps are taken for population control so that birth rate is reduced and family size is kept small . 
B. People belonging to different religions can live together happily as equal citizens. 
They live in the deserts of Africa . 
Silk comes from silkworms and wool is obtained from sheep, goat and yak. Hence silk and wool are animal fibres. 
Left with no other option , the Portuguese left the country in . 
They brought the Akkadian state under their control and established a large state . 
Here the fleshy sepals of the flowers of an inflorescence unite together to form a fruit . 
Livestock includes mainly horses , pigs , sheep and cows . 
Also notice that in beaker b red copper is found at the bottom of the beaker and on the nail leaving light green iron sulphate solution. 
What is the criteria to decide a best fuel? 
As in the wide expanse of the divine compassion there is room for all classes and the followers of all creeds, so in his Imperial dominions, which on all sides were limited only by the sea, there was room for the professors of opposite religions, and for beliefs, good and bad, and the road to intolerance was closed. Sunnis and Shias met in one mosque and Christians and Jews in one church to pray. He consistently followed the principle of universal peace (sulh-i kul). 
The term rachitic denotes the condition of a person affected with vitamin D deficiency disease called rickets . 
f Grind the soaked paper and make it into dough . 
Let us study about some marching movements in this class . 
Read more about the 'Goldilocks Zone'bit.ly/ITCQU 
This is done by reducing the stake of the government either fully or partially and thereby increasing the stake of the private sector in the Public Sector Units ( PSUs ) . 
The Government is trying to provide education , food , house and health facilities to these people in the recent years . 
After the death of Krishnappa Nayaka , the ruler of Surapura , Venkatappa Nayaka , a boy of eight years , became his successor . 
LESSON WASTE IS WEALTH 
Atomic Structure negative terminal of the battery is called the cathode ( negative electrode ) . 
Both father and mother work . 
III Discuss . 
Lactobacillus 
Through secret negotiation , Dupleix created a confederation of chandasahib and Muzaffar Jung . 
How did you draw the fuse that we made using steel wool in the last activity? The conventional symbol for drawing a fuse in a circuit diagram is shown here: 
The day-to-day condition of the atmosphere at a place with respect to the temperature, humidity, rainfall, wind-speed, etc., is called the weather at that place. 
b ) Observe , record , and compare the effect of gravity on several objects in motion ( e.g. , a thrown ball and a dropped ball falling to Earth ) . 
enabled s ee animals to help them perform these movements . 
Used food or stale food should be avoided . 
Put four to five colours into water and dip a piece of white cloth or a piece of paper in it and immediately remove it . 
Can you remember learning about mixtures in Gr. ? You may remember that a mixture consists of two or more substances mixed together. The next section is NOT about mixtures. It is about substances that are not mixed with anything and consists of only one type of matter throughout. Such substances are called pure substances. In this sense, 'pure' simply means: not mixed with any other substances. 
They extends from Bering Strait to the Caspian Sea . 
It is difficult to imagine forests in our country without the people who live in them and use them. Forests provide the critical resource for the very poor in our state to make a living. In North Coastal Region, for example, % of the people who use the forests collect head loads of Fuel wood and carry them to markets for sale. On the other hand in Rayalaseema districts most people depend upon the forests for grazing sheep and goats. In Coastal region about % people depend upon such collection of forest produce. You would have made a long list of forest produce people collect, but the full list is much, much longer with about more than sixty items on it! 
III . 
Generally stomata occur in the lower epidermis . 
Egg : The ovum is often called an egg . 
But why should a bank want us to have a higher income? 
Sala killing a tiger is the royal emblem of Hoysalas . 
. Describe current government strategy of poverty alleviation? 
Awards : To promote kabaddi and encourage players , the government announced Arjuna award in , for those representing state , national and international level . 
QUESTIONS: 
LESSON RELIGIOUS AND SOCIAL REFORM MOVEMENTS Introduction Between the th and th centuries many religious and social reform movements were witnessed in India . 
Flora of Sundribuns is another notable book written by him . 
sugar water ( tablespoon dissolved in a cup of water) 
Posters bearing the picture and ideas of Hitler were circulated . 
ANNEXURE 
Preamble to the Constitution The Constitution of India begins with a Preamble . 
Nitrogen , found in many fertilizers , is good for farming . 
The farmers stand on a raised platform and allow the threshed food grains to fall slowly on ground . 
Vegetables and fruits are perfectly cut into slice within a short time with these machines . 
Atomic number 
Oh ! 
What would she do if she went to her bank branch? 
Construct circuits to measure the emf and the terminal potential difference for a battery. Some common elements (components) which can be found in electrical circuits include light bulbs, batteries, connecting leads, switches, resistors, voltmeters and ammeters. You have learnt about many of these already. Below is a table with the items and their symbols: 
Rack : - Rack for drying clothes are made of wood , iron and plastic . 
Female aedis mosquitoes are vectors of dengue . 
The fundamental discovery of Volta is that an electric current is generated by separating two dissimilar conductors with acids . 
Use of dynamos in both rural and urban areas of Bangladesh is increasing steadily . 
This heat is caused by friction - the force that holds back the movement of a sliding object . 
Remember bud Potato Ginger Sweet potato eshy roots bud Bryophyllum leaf All organisms reproduce and give rise to young ones of their own kind . 
The wholewheat roll and lettuce, tomato and apple contain cellulose, which acts as roughage. 
In these patients the excess glucose is eliminated through urine . 
Most of the people believe that the result of polio cases is always paralysis of the body . 
Hence, many areas of forests have been protected against human interference. 
This division set in motion a series of events that turned Vietnam into a battlefield bringing death and destruction to its people as well as the environment. The Bao Dai regime was soon overthrown by a coup led by Ngo Dinh Diem. Diem built a repressive and authoritarian government. Anyone who opposed him was called a communist and was jailed and killed. Diem retained Ordinance , a French law that permitted Christianity but outlawed Buddhism. His dictatorial rule came to be opposed by a broad opposition united under the banner of the National Liberation Front (NLF). 
In every country after a certain interval of time , say after 10 years in general , a survey is conducted to know the different aspects of population . 
Chapter Three: Our Constitution makers believed that fundamental rights were quite central to the Constitution because 
THE SIX FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS ARE -- Right to Equality Right to Freedom Right against Exploitation Right to freedom of Religion Cultural and Educational Right Right to Constitutional Remedies -- -- -- -- -- I I `` What do you mean by Right to Equality ? '' 
Digestive gland : The glands that produce juice , which help in the digestion of food are called digestive glands . 
It instils national pride among all individuals . 
Iron , and iron stand are necessary for ironing . 
Chapter : Chemical bonding . Introduction What happens when atoms bond? 
d ) Investigate and record temperature data to show the effects of heat energy on changing the states of water . 
UNIT - POLLUTION 
The most commonly used indicator is litmus . 
The industrial revolution as you know started in England around and soon factory production spread to France, Holland, Germany, Spain, Russia, etc. Countries like England and Germany, which had large reserves of coal and other minerals, took lead in developing new industries. 
Buy shoes worth Rs and get one pair of shoes worth Rs free. 
The most notable among the species is the golda prawns . 
Using just one light bulb with two or more batteries will result in a brighter light . 
We come into contact with many physical quantities in the natural world on a daily basis. For example, things like time, mass, weight, force, and electric charge, are physical quantities with which we are all familiar. We know that time passes and physical objects have mass. Things have weight due to gravity. We exert forces when we open doors, walk along the street and kick balls. We experience electric charge directly through static shocks in winter and through using anything which runs on electricity. 
The structure of diamond is a ) hexagonal c ) soccer ball b ) tetrahedral d ) amorphous . 
Which objects do not form shadows? 
The speed of revolution is kmh- . 
The history of classification began with Aristotle. 
This creates a larger crack , allowing more water to gather creating an even larger crack . 
If the stain is old it should be removed with diluted ammonia solution and washed it with soap and water . 
Variation is the difference between individuals from the same species. 
His mother said that woollen clothes trap air and act as bad conductor of heat or cold . 
But a kind of symbiotic thallophyta is formed by the association of algae and fungi which is known as lichen . 
After combustion , drop a blue litmus paper soaked in water into the jar . 
IV EXERCISE : AGEY PAV Position : Place both the legs in hoshiyar position and join the lezium at the right side . 
One of them led to the palace , the second led to the ornate temple and the third led to the pyramids . 
Fig . Transporting Animals 
(c) was an important centre of the Bhakti tradition in Maharashtra. 
Simultaneously with the formation of pseudopodia , the protoplasm of the body of Amoeba flows in that direction and with that other parts of the body move that way . 
The social changes in Maasai society occurred at two levels. First, the traditional difference based on age, between the elders and warriors, was disturbed, though it did not break down entirely. Second, a new distinction between the wealthy and poor pastoralists developed. 
It is washed away in water . 
Food is also needed to give support for this process . 
Flood plains of the Dhaleswari and the Jamuna can be mentioned as examples . 
Fig. 
Chapter - HIGH JUMP Following skills are learnt in this athletics . 
What ' s the reason ? 
Application of learnt ideas , problem solving skills and critical thinking is to be encouraged . 
(iii) Write a poem or paragraph showing the importance of wild life. 
Our Banlgadesh was East Bengal befor and later it became East Pakistan . 
How - ever , the true meaning is the ' union of the atma and the paramatma ' . 
d = m/ = m. 
Ozone layer danger.bit.ly/dEzkgQ 
Addition of salt : When salt is added to food , it removes the water from Fig . Refrigerator food by osmosis . 
A straight line that meets the circle at one and only one point is called a tangent to the circle. Straight line ABC is a tangent to the circle at point B. 
The coacervates continued to constantly take in new materials from the ocean and release the degraded materials . 
elastic band 
Apart from the gramabhojaka, there were other independent farmers, known as grihapatis, most of whom were smaller landowners. And then there were men and women such as the dasa karmakara, who did not own land, and had to earn a living working on the fields owned by others. 
The qualifications and functions of the Legislators , and the qualifications and powers of the Governor have been described . 
This year you will learn about the characteristics of a kho-kho player , the achievements of kho-kho players at the state and national levels , and the awards won by them . 
What skeletal studies tell us 
Write a short paragraph to explain what a semi-metal is. Also give an example of one semi-metal and say where in the Periodic Table the semi-metals can be found. [ marks] 
There are training centres for the defence forces to learn their fighting skills . 
What would happen to the rest ? 
Figure .: Grasslands are regions where the vegetation is dominated by grasses. 
Differences between metals and non-metals : Recall the activities discussed so far and try to ll the following table . 
invertebrate 
glass 
frequency in 
It was found that the Law of Octaves was applicable only upto calcium, as after calcium every eighth element did not possess properties similar to that of the first. 
The path and the organs in which the air passes through are shown in the picture . 
The National Water Transport Authority has declared major inland waterways as National Waterways . 
Disease caused by fungus can be prevented by two ways . 
How is it collected and segregated ? 
A peaceful living atmosphere had been a major concern even at the time of the formation of the UN , since democracy had not become a reality even after the nd world war . 
You are familiar with the heavenly bodies like the sun , the moon , planets and stars . 
The magnets we see and use in our daily life possess different shapes. Some of the usual shapes of magnets are shown in Fig. . 
Activity . 
Emergence of nation-states in Europe 
be most suitable for the development of healthy bones and teeth? 
Office Memorandum: A communication issued by an appropriate authority stating the policy or decision of the government. 
Wind and water wash the sand and small stones away and deposit them as sediments into lakes and the ocean. This process is called deposition. 
All people including the President , the Prime Minister , Parliamentarians , Judges and officers are bound by it . 
The decision was not directly taken in the Parliament. But Parliamentary discussions on the Report influenced and shaped the decision of the government. They brought pressure on the government to act on the Mandal recommendation. If the Parliament was not in favour of this decision, the Government could not have gone ahead with it. Can you guess why? Recall what you read about the Parliament in the earlier class and try to imagine 
In symbiosis, organisms share their food and shelter. 
These are called portal veins . 
TABLE- 
Your column should look something like this. 
Discovery of Oxygen 
The main difference of artery and vein are given below on the table . 
c) After , the readership of novels began to include poorer people. 
Its Diameter is 48 , 400 kilometres . 
Some time after puffing off its outer layers at stage D, the fuel of the central star will have become depleted. What causes the star to collapse inwards to become E? [ mark] 
Recently very limited quantity of mineral oil reserve has been detected in Bangladesh . 
Now remove the thread tied on the neck of balloon. Let the air escape from the mouth of the balloon. 
A common balance measures the mass of a body , by comparing it with a body of known mass . 
Due to their physical transformation they are found to have attraction towards the opposite sexes belonging to their age group . 
Mouth cavity contains teeth , tongue and salivary glands . 
The white portions of the discs in figure represents the sun and the black portions represents the moon. Each of these discs depict the position of the sun and moon at various stages of the eclipse. 
Pregnancy and STDs can be prevented mostly by wearing a male condom. 
The Hindustani singer and actress Ameerabai Karnataki is from Belagi town . 
Years ago , when DDT ( a poison that kills insects ) was used in the environment , a few mosquitoes were resistant to DDT . 
When the conversation over the telephone is over , the receiver should be kept properly , otherwise it will not get connected . 
Sarojini Naidu (-) 
He started Chalukya Vikramashake in memory of his power . 
Hold the same posture for some time and breathe normally . 
Micro Economics is the study of . 
. Medical care to pollution victims. 
In the case of Malabar , they say , good forest land is available for four or five Rupees an acre . 
The slice of vegetables are needed for chap sue and Chawmin . 
Small stone/rock 
Can you think of any other reasons? 
Collect the pictures of the plants and animals that live there . 
What are the changes that affected monarchy in England between Petition of Right and Bill of Rights ? 
Among the various types of solvents , water is the most easily available and the cheapest one . 
Take a small piece of Magnesium ribbon. Burn it on a flame of candle. You will find brilliant white dazzling light leaving a powdery substance behind. 
Chemical Reactions and Equations 
Exercises 
In this situation we are compelled to depend upon foreign aid . 
Diseases of plants : Fungi cause various diseases of important crop plants like Paddy , Potato , Wheat , Sugar cane etc . 
So , actually at present the number of under developed countries is few . 
Till recent past , about 1 , 500 persons have been treated at these centres . 
All solids do not expand equally even though heat is applied to them to the same extent . 
. Identify the sentences in this chapter that argue about the role of the government in providing public health. AS 
All ies died . 
In , some new laws were made in Russia giving more powers to its president. During the same time the US president visited Russia. What, according to this cartoon, is the relationship between democracy and concentration of power? Can you think of some other examples to illustrate the point being made here? 
Name Kanakadasa 's parents . 
In the world culture differs from one region to another . 
INSTRUCTIONS: 
.. (ii) IRRIGATION 
Structural and functional unit of organism is the cell . 
But it must fulfil one ' s need . 
They are dependent on other substances or organisms for transmission . 
of No . 
A thick glass tumbler often cracks when boiling water is poured into it . 
Agricultural Erosion Agriculture is the largest contributor to soil pollution caused by humans . 
We will also form Cubs and Groups of Yellow Birds in our school . 
Keep the plants in sunlight for about two hours. 
Neutral | Neutralisation | Salt 
While British imperial officials brought the game to the colonies, they made little effort to spread the game, especially in colonial territories where the subjects of empire were mainly non-white, such as India and the West Indies. Here, playing cricket became a sign of superior social and racial status, and the Afro-Caribbean population was discouraged from participating in organised club cricket, which remained dominated by white plantation owners and their servants. 
Activity . 
Explain your answer above. [ mark] 
It 's a hot place with scanty rainfall . 
Fig-(a) Picture of Trypanosoma, the protozoan organism responsible for sleeping sickness. The organism is lying next to a saucer-shaped red blood cell to give an idea of the scale. 
At the international level, the Club of Rome advocated resource conservation for the first time in a more systematic way in . Subsequently, in , Gandhian philosophy was once again presented by Schumacher in his book Small is Beautiful. The seminal contribution with respect to resource conservation at the global level was made by the Brundtland Commission Report, . This report introduced the concept of Sustainable Development and advocated it as a means for resource conservation, which was subsequently published in a book entitled Our Common Future. Another significant contribution was made at the Earth Summit at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in . 
(d) motor. 
Look carefully at the picture. How would you describe the appearance of element X? 
Furrow Irrigation 
Match the following as the model given . 
Hammurabi was the first ruler to enforce the Code of Laws . 
This will act as a screen . 
degenerative 
Why was no Trade Union allowed to form in KRS Medicines Factory? 
It is no longer thought so . 
Attribute Significance 
. As a part of Non Co-operation movement, what incidents took place in our 
Its cells may be arranged in a line . 
Amul in Gujrat and Patna Dairy in Bihar ( which is known as ` Sudha ' ) are successful examples of cooperative societies in connection with milk and milk products . 
International Monetary Fund (IMF) is one of the biggest moneylenders for any country in the world. Its member states (as on September ) do not have equal voting rights. The vote of each country is weighed by how much money it has contributed to the IMF. More than % of the voting power in the IMF is in the hands of only ten countries (US, Japan, Germany, France, UK, China, Italy, Saudi Arabia, Canada and Russia). The remaining countries have very little say in how these international organisations take decisions. The World Bank has a similar system of voting. The President of the World Bank has always been a citizen of the US, conventionally nominated by the Treasury Secretary (Finance Minister) of the US government. 
If we use money, there will be no problem in exchanging commodities. 
A lion snake sh monkey honey bee star sh crane rat cockroach weaver bird B ant hill cave tree pond hole river nest sea hive crevices Activity : Write the names of the animals that you nd in the picture , in the space provided . 
its rate of traveling distance increases by 0 . 6 metre for rise of each degree of celcius temperature . 
Lack of technical know - how : For modern industries , industrial workers with improved technical knowledge are very necessary . 
They perform the same function that is transferring message. 
But this creates a major difficulty. If each new generation is to be the combination of the DNA copies from two pre-existing individuals, then each new generation will end up having twice the amount of DNA that the previous generation had. This is likely to mess up the control of the cellular apparatus by the DNA. Besides, if each generation doubles its DNA, fairly soon there will be only DNA on earth, with no room for anything else. How many ways can we think of for solving this difficulty? 
Consider the following: 
II EXERCISE : THAL SE KADAM Position : Lift right leg in hoshiyar position . 
The salts dissolved in water are responsible for the difference in taste . 
Atmosphere 
Some pollutants that enter the air by natural disasters. For example, volcano eruptions, forest fires, dust and sand storms. 
.. Magnetic Field due to a Current through a Straight Conductor 
Look at the sky for some time. Can you see some stars forming groups with shapes like those in Fig. .. 
The health of an individual is dependent on his/her physical surroundings and his/her economic status. 
Activity : Let us conduct an experiment to know that the particles are loosely distributed in a liquid . 
Each country uses an imaginary line that is considered appropriate for its existing level of development and its accepted minimum social norms . 
'' Try again and again until you succeed '' . 
Chapter 
It is also used in the paper , leather , textile and automobile industries . 
suggest appropriate methods of separating mixtures . 
What is the input energy in this mechanical system? 
Many people of the country are engaged in the production of different goods and earn their livelihood . 
In ancient days people used to write on plant leaves and on stones . 
After studying this lesson you , understand the importance of a family . 
.. fabric protect us from cold. 
. Swapna sells the cotton to the trader. 
In this way , the heart together with its vessels carries on the circulation of blood . 
To encourage and implement the primary , secondary , adult and informal education programmes . 
He was very weak . 
pneumonia 
Used below concrete . 
On , cooling , an unsaturated solution slowly turns into a saturated solution . 
Circular motion Take a stone , tie a thread to it and whirl it with your hand and observe the motion of the stone . 
c Right to protect one s culture 
What are artificial magnets ? 
Discuss in groups or collect information about junk food. In what way are they harmful to us? 
A moving ball slows down because of the friction between the surfaces of the ball and the ground . 
They are foregut , midgut , hindgut . 
importance of Sociology Though Sociology is the youngest science among all the social sciences , its uses are universal . 
Rishabha was the first Tirthankara whereas Parswanatha was the Tirthankara . 
What is the reason behind the formation of a male or female child ? 
Record the number of learners in your class who have each characteristic. 
Due to the presence of greater amount of salt in the cells the plants can absorb saline water . 
But we should drink pure and arsenic free water . 
( positively , negatively ) III . 
Delta -- A fan shaped , low lying area of deposits at a river mouth . 
This vein carries oxygenated blood to the heart . 
Light seems to travel along straight-line paths in a transparent medium. What happens when light enters from one transparent medium to another? Does it still move along a straight-line path or change its direction? We shall recall some of our day-to-day experiences. 
The body requires energy for the maintenance of body temperature and for carrying out its normal functions . 
As a result they can not remain in the atmosphere . 
Seals and sealings 
Fossils in sedimentary rock.http://www.flickr.com/photos/ivanwalsh// 
Surgical replacement of the lens is the remedial measure . 
increased 
What causes the formation of an image ? 
The Earth is like a ball 
On the other hand soap can not produce foam in hard water . 
Rampukar lives in a one room ranted house in a crowded basti in the outskirts of the city . 
METHOD: 
Let two objects A and B of masses M and m lie at a distance d from each other as shown in Fig. .. Let the force of attraction between two objects be F. According to the universal law of gravitation, the force between two objects is directly proportional to the product of their masses. That is, 
R . P . Kent says that money is such a thing which is commonly used as a medium of exchange or a measure of value . 
Arising from the embryonic cell layer when certain types of cells when remain in a particular place of the animals body and collectively perform a common function . 
A major road to Nepal passing through Vyshali and Chamaparanya from Pataliputhra was also there . 
astronomical unit (AU): the average distance between the Earth and the Sun, equal to around million kilometres 
Move the pencil away from the mirror slowly. Does the image become smaller or larger? 
What is the final charge on each sphere? 
Let us do-: Observe reaction of Vinegar with Baking soda 
It maintains civil order and peace by protecting the life and property of citizens . 
Curved lines reduce the length of the person who wears such type of clothes but it brings rhythm and creates elegance in clothing . 
Exercises 
However instead of crests and troughs, longitudinal waves have compressions and rarefactions. 
Now remove your hand from the card . 
Water which is not salty is called fresh water . 
Use your table to draw two line graphs on the same set of axes. One graph should be the number of cells against the current (ammeter reading) and the other graph should be the number of cells against the potential difference (voltmeter reading). Decide which are your independent and dependent variables in this investigation. Draw a line of best fit through the data points. 
What is the reason for the scent / odour in bathing soap and perfume ? 
increase in velocity c ) nonuniform acceleration . 
It means LET US FILL THE TABULAR COLUMN ! 
The air which surrounds us contains oxygen , nitrogen , carbon dioxide and so on , all of which are gaseous substances . 
As we have already mentioned, a number of changes can occur when elements are combined with one another. These changes may either be physical or chemical. In this chapter we will look at chemical changes. One way of representing chemical changes is through balanced chemical equations. A chemical equation describes a chemical reaction by using symbols for the elements involved. For example, if we look at the reaction between iron and sulfur to form iron sulfide , we could represent these changes in a sentence, in a word equation or using chemical symbols: 
It did not happen in a single day . 
Atomic number and atomic mass number 
Let s recall 
A:Fat/ lipids 
You may have listened to many ballads and stories about the bravery and martial skill of Brahma Naidu and Balachandrudu. You may have also participated in Jataras dedicated to Sammakka and Sarakka - they fought against armies of kings to protect the rights of the tribal people. You might have enjoyed the popular story of Katama Raju who fought with the Kings of Nellore in defence of theright of animal herders. 
It protects the environment form green house effect . 
g. . g. . g. . COUNT : Stand up erect , keep the trunk twisted to the right and perform as was done in count no. of Char avaz but on the right side . 
The total resistance of the resistors in series is 
Philosophers began to observe the universe in a new manner and tried to explain natural phenomena with new methods . 
a. Country ______________________________________________________ 
Fig. . This activity reveals that , If A and B are bodies and L is a light source then , Shadow of A falls on B when A lies in line between light source L and B. For A to view the shadow falling on B , A should be facing B. Shadow of B falls on A when B lies in line between light source L and A. For A to view the shadow of B falling on A , A should be facing L . 
Although hydrogen appears in group , it is not an alkali metal. 
In some animals the formation of gametes does not take place. Still they produce offsprings like themselves. As the formation of gametes does not take place there is no question of fusion of gametes. Such process of reproduction is called Asexual Reproduction. 
Which seeds can float on water? 
The Panchasheel principles were developed as the basis of the bilateral relations between India and China . 
Try to know some of them . 
Yes , oxygen is slightly soluble in water . 
It is very much harmful to the body . 
Find out from your parents and elders the stories of the Palnati Virulu, Sammakka-Sarakka and Katama Raju. Relate these stories in the class. 
Picnic is a recreational arrangement for going to a nice place , eating together and making fun to get rid of monotonous life . 
The discovery of the antibiotic, penicillin was announced in . In Dr. Alexander Flemming was awarded the Nobel prize along with other scientists (Dr. Howard flory, and Dr. Ernst.B.chain). 
The burning of materials requires oxygen 
'' In life , do n't get trapped but succeed by reaching your goal through following rules and by staying within the stipulated boundaries . '' 
dear child ... . 
In the technical unemployment it is found that on one de there is unemployment among technically skilled persons and on the other side there is lack of necessary technical skills for economic development . 
Read the following statements and mime them . 
Hampi Thorangallu factory Numerous monuments are there in Hampi . 
It could be in milk, provisions, paddy, etc. Find out 
Basically a co - operative is an organization where the poor and the neglected voluntarily join hands with equal rights to improve their condition . 
Technology is the use of science . 
It causes segments of the railway tracks to expand . 
Pompeii (full documentary).bit.ly/HbQULb 
They went to a flower shop and bought cubits of garland . 
Fig-: Irregularities of two surfaces in contact 
Base 
Look at the map of Nimpur village area given here (Fig .). 
Tie a small stone at one end. Hold the other end of the thread and whirl it round, as shown in Fig. .. 
get information on what the goverment is doing? 
Explaining the rock cycle 
Protein plays a major role in producing antibodies . 
. Take hair, wool, silk, paper, cotton thread, piece of plastic, thread of sweater, piece of rope and carefully conduct a flame test. Based on smell and type of melting classify them as natural or artificial fibres. (AS) 
If population increases , the chances of water pollution increases . 
S.No Rights Fibrotex KRS Medicine Factory Brick Kilns 
Fragmentation of body : Here a plant body is divided into fragments , each of which later develops into an independent plant , such as Spirogyra , Riccia etc . 
The leaders of Renaissance made people conscious of the importance of a strong movement against the all powerful untouchability , ensuring the unity of people . 
Whenever an activity involves heating, be very careful. It is advised that such activities are performed in the presence of an elderly person from your family. Or, carry out these activities in the presence of your teacher. 
Green plants exhibit vegetative and sexual reproduction . 
The purpose of classi cation is for convenience - easy to study , identify and remember . 
Nose , nasopharynx , larynx , trachea , bronchus and lungs together form the respiratory system . 
The various harmful activities of bacteria , fungi and virus are given in the table . 
Electrovalent bond or Ionic bond : Look at the following compound formations by electrovalent or ionic bonds . 
A sudden flow of electrons between oppositely charged objects is called static ___________ . 
The crumpled foil sinks and the tray shaped foil oats . 
Cultivating the land using water from any of these sources is called irrigated agriculture . 
The office of the Principal Secretary is divided into many divisions . 
. Atomic mass and diameter 
We can use the wordinheritance in different ways. When someone dies they may leave an inheritance of money, a home, car or other physical belongings to their children or other people. In Science, inheritance is how parents pass on traits or characteristics to their children. 
chemical reaction: a process in which atoms in substances, called reactants, are rearranged to form new substances, called products 
The growing of different crops on a piece of land in pre-planned succession is called crop rotation. 
Rise of British Political Supremacy in India Impact of the British Rule Social and Riligious Reforms Freedom Struggle xii LESSON Introduction VIJAYANAGARA EMPIRE The expedition which started during th century , by Delhi Sultan Allauddin Khilji over South India , continued in th century also . 
long the Congress had ignored the dalits, for fear of offending the sanatanis, the conservative high-caste Hindus. But Mahatma Gandhi declared that swaraj would not come for a hundred years if untouchability was not eliminated. He called the untouchables harijan, or the children of God, organised satyagraha to secure them entry into temples, and access to public wells, tanks, roads and schools. He himself cleaned toilets to dignify the work of the bhangi (the sweepers), and persuaded upper castes to change their heart and give up the sin of untouchability . But many dalit leaders were keen on a different political solution to the problems of the community. They began organising themselves, demanding reserved seats in educational institutions, and a separate electorate that would choose dalit members for legislative councils. Political empowerment, they believed, would resolve the problems of their social disabilities. 
Since the fresh groundnut sells at a low price, I usually dry it and sell after a few months. Traders generally pay a higher price for dried groundnut, Vijayakumar said. 
It inspired the people to exclaim ' Hoysala ! ' 
What you have learnt 
By performing particular duty , a member brings prosperity to the family . 
Excessive use of any asset ended once upon a time . 
One such full rotation of the earth is known as solar day . 
Table . summarises the characteristics of the particles that are in each phase of matter. 
(b) Name the major continents of the earth. 
Questions 
Add two drops of milk to water . 
Is this air visible ? 
Method 
Get the same fertiliser (type and amount) 
Krishnadevaraya (-AD) 
Garo hills Cities about years ago 
** Birth rates is the number of babies born there for every , people during a particular period of time. 
It is also the functional unit in biosphere . 
It is this atmosphere of the earth that is the basis for the survival of life on the earth . 
High tide 
The highest point of Africa is Mt. Kilimanjaro and lowest point is Lake Assal , Djibouti . 
There are beautiful waterfalls in the course of these rivers . 
. Why were the amaranayakas very powerful? AS 
The solid particles will only move from their positions when they have gained enough kinetic energy for a change of state to occur and the solid melts to become a liquid. 
This type of containers can be made of glass , tin or plastic . 
Looking at the clear and cloudless night sky in winter , one would see a long line of translucent and radiant lustre of light with a wide vicinity extended north to south . 
Total [ marks] 
Make a list of habitats and food of animals and birds found in your locality . 
They do not keep high margin of profit . 
The planets outside the orbit of Mars, namely Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are much farther off than the inner planets. They are called the outer planets. They have a ring system around them. The outer planets have large number of moons. 
The way in which historians focus on industrialisation rather than on small workshops is a good example of how what we believe today about the past is influenced by what historians choose to notice and what they ignore. Note down one event or aspect of your own life which adults such as your parents or teachers may think is unimportant, but which you believe to be important. 
Does the image appear upside down ? 
MAP .: DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENTS IN 
They were of the opinion that the wealthy people had the right to spend the money in ways they chose fit . 
This programme has also helped reduce caste prejudices because both lower and upper caste children in the school eat this meal together. In Andhra Pradesh in almost all the rural schools, mid-day meal is prepared by the members of women self help groups, who are invariably from deprived classes, and in quite a few places, dalit women have been employed to cook the meal. 
A jersey cow. 
Why do you think the tank has been dry for so long? 
Rubber: It is an equatorial crop, but under special conditions, it is also grown in tropical and sub-tropical areas. It requires moist and humid climate with rainfall of more than cm. and temperature above C. Rubber is an important industrial raw material. It is mainly grown in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andaman and Nicabar islands and Garo hills of Meghalaya. India ranks fifth among the world s natural rubber producers. 
We see that the vs. graph is a horizontal line. If the velocity vs. time graph is a horizontal line, it means that the velocity is constant (not changing). Motion at a constant velocity is known as uniform motion. We can use the vs. graph to calculate the velocity by finding the gradient of the line. 
So , the solution in the first beaker is acid . 
Have you considered that air and sunlight are also nonliving parts of every environment ? 
Control of Environmental Degradation 
How was this to be done? In this chapter we will see how the Company came to colonise the countryside, organise revenue resources, redefine the rights of people, and produce the crops it wanted. 
To train or develop leadership qualities among people at the grassroot level . 
Collect pictures of Baobab trees found in Karnataka . 
Therefore , it is evident that some plants grow in land and some in water . 
Battery : Two or more cells joined together to get more electric current is called battery . 
Later the lower part of the scion is cut in the same shape , and carefully fixed into the cut end of the root - stock and then tightly tied the two together with cotton thread after applying wax and fungicides . 
Write or sentences about your observations. 
Clean water containing no microbes is called safe water . 
Silk 
Materials required to produce a commodity are called raw materials. Factories require large, continuous supply of raw materials.You will find dozens of lorries supplying raw materials to them every day. 
There are similar spaces among the molecules . 
Variations in the offspring is the characteristic of reproduction . 
Video: CV 
Organisms which possess simple cells with primitive nucleus are called prokaryotes . 
The tale tells about a time Mangus climbed a mountain to rescue a lamb and he found that the iron nails in his sandals stuck to pieces of a particular rock . 
Ferromagnetism 
Asteroids are clearly not planets as they have irregular shapes and they are not spherical. Some dwarf planets are spherical, but they do not meet the third criterion. With their weak gravities they are unable to clear out other objects from their orbits. Which famous ex-planet is now considered a dwarf planet because it failed to meet the third criterion? 
The Mongolians observe Moon Cake1 festival and the Chinese observe Chinese New Year . 
Every year we experience them one after another : summer , rainy season , autumn , late autumn , winter and spring . 
IUPAC system 
The main source of energy on the earth is the sun . 
The pointed tool pierced his eyes and he lost his eye sight . 
The speed of light in glass.bit.ly/fcfJVZ 
Animals can be preserved if the conditions are just right . 
Reproduction is most important for continuation of human race. You know that reproduction takes place by the fusion of male and female gametes. 
Substituting OA = u, OC = AD = t and BD = at, we get 
Musicians of this division have achieved national and international acclaim . 
Plenty of fish was available in rivers and canals . 
I twist my wrists right and left . 
But during that time , completely , opposite condition prevails in the southern hemisphere . 
. Do you think it is important to preserve the lifestyle of the tribals? Why? AS 
Because of absence of normal functioning of life activities and ability to become crystallized they seem to be non living . 
recognize the diversity of food in different places by understanding the points that decide the food system . 
India 's golden era in the game lasted from to during which India won consecutive gold medals at Olympic Games . 
Dip your finger and observe the finger from the side of the tumbler . 
Temperature needed to preserve the packet . 
. Identify the different types of work that are related to farming and those that are not. List these in a table. 
The performances draws from the epics like Ramayana and Mahabharata and local legend with raucous humor and wisecracks about current events. For epics, the troupe uses regional versions. Very rarely, they write new stories. Performers are mostly wandering troupes. They wander for nine months in a year from village to village giving performances in return for money and grains. 
What discoveries did Galileo make using his telescope? 
Chaityalayas , temples , mathas and agraharas were the centers of education . 
Water changes into vapour due to the heat of the sun . 
Laxmi says that sedimentation and decantation are used at home while cleaning rice and pulses for cooking. Describe the sediments in this process. 